Assignment / Assessment Specification



Module
Title
Databases 1


Assignment
Name
ERD and SQL


Lecturer
Patricia O'Byrne


Class group
TU857/2




Worth: 20%  Due date/time
of module    Week 11 Thursday midnight


Submission mechanism
(Off submit through mechanisms listed here — other submissions will be ignored)
Brightspace
Individual Brightspace submission
Late submission penalty 10% per week for 1 week. No submissions allowed after that.

Pick a Case Study:
To get your case study, on Britghtspace, open Module Tools and Groups. Click the button for 
available groups. Read through the available case studies and sign yourself up for one of them. Do 
the assigned case studv
ERD (10 of 20):

Develop a logical and relational Model using IE notation, to hold the persistent data for your case 
study. From this, you may generate SQL or you may prefer to write it. NOTE: submit a .png of your 
ERD, not the DMD model. Amend the SQL as you see fit, preserving the table structure and 
relationships. Add INSERT statements. Each table should have at least 4 rows. This is an individual 
assignment — you should make up your own data — it should be different to data another student with 
the same case study has.

Save the document with the SQL statements. Prior to creating the tables, your script should drop 
the current version of those tables.

Run the SQL in your own database, to create the tables. SQL(10 of 20):
Write SELECT statements to get the information back from the tables you have made. The SELECT 
statements should show your mastery of SELECT, PROJECT, UNION, INTERSECT, EXCEPT, JOIN (inner and 
outer), sub-queries and aggregation. Please note that when your queries are checked, marks will be 
deducted if there is no data to satisfy the query. Submit a separate script with your queries in 
it.

Write a block of SQL code to change the data in your system, simulating a transaction. A 
transaction is a combination of inserting, updating and / or deleting rows. Your block should have 
at least two of these, and your transaction should be relevant to the case study.
Submission: 
1. Submit a Word document with a readable picture of your logical model and your relational ERD, 
showing your thought process while creating your ERD and designing your transactions and queries.
2. Submit well commented SQL scripts as outlined above.
3. DEMONSTRATE your submitted work to the lab supervisor.
PLEASE NOTE: Work that has not been demonstrated cannot be marked.


